The time finally arrived for children in parts of the Eastern Cape to get active again and play with joy in their hearts and with smiles on their faces as the KFC Mini-Cricket activation programme visited schools in Ngqeleni, Centane, Lusikisiki and Bizana last week. Cricket SA (CSA), in partnership with KFC, hosted four thrilling cricket spectacles, featuring the official CSA mascot, Zac,  provincial ambassadors including Border stalwart and ex-Protea Mfuneko Ngam and Zintle Mali. The first stop was at Old Bunting Junior Secondary in Ngqeleni before they proceeded to Tiyo Soga Primary in Centane. The week was rounded off with activations at Masobhuza Primary in Lusikisiki and Esitofini Primary. These KFC Mini-Cricket programmes form part of a 2020-2021 KFC Mini-Cricket season relaunch undertaken by CSA to help provide an enjoyable but, more importantly, a safe environment for  children to get active after a prolonged absence caused by Covid-19. Before the resumption, to ensure the safety of  players, coaches and teachers, KFC Mini-Cricket identified non-hotspot regions across the country where non-contact school sport could take place. They also procured personal protective equipment and sanitisers for  participating schools, provided extra playing equipment to limit sharing between players, as well as  arrange a safety officer to help facilitate  Covid-19 protocols. CSA’s mass participation co-ordinator Buhle Motshegoa was pleased  how the inland Eastern Cape leg of the KFC Mini-Cricket Regional Festivals went, highlighting the huge excitement for the programme as well as the bright talent on show. Border have produced Proteas legends such as Makhaya Ntini and Mark Boucher, as well as current Proteas women’s star Ayabonga Khaka. “We are happy that the 2020-2021 KFC Mini-Cricket season was able to get under way in the form of  activation programmes and that once again we get to see our mini cricketers and coaches play with smiles on their faces,” Motshegoa said. “As soon as we set foot in Ngqeleni, you could sense the excitement in the air and passion for  cricket from all those involved in making the two-day cricketing spectacle a resounding success. “Though getting kids active in a fun and enjoyable way is the main goal, we also got to witness some sensational talent on the field,  from both the boys and girls. “This bodes well, not only for the growth of the KFC Mini-Cricket programme but also for the South African cricket pipeline.”  