Every year, come the end of the soccer season,  there are courtroom battles over playoff positions (“No End in Sight for PSL to Tangled Court Web as Royal AM Vow to Appeal”, DD Jun 19; “More Drama as PSL Instructs Clubs to Get Playoffs Under Way  Despite Royal AM Interdict”, DD Jun 16). It clearly shows that the model and system used in SA is wrong, and those running the Premier Soccer League have contributed to this mayhem. The Premier League should consist of 18 clubs with two automatic promotion spots allocated,  and from the bottom up also in respect of the promotion spots that are available. The PSL has a history of mismanaging  soccer in this country. I am not sure how they convinced DStv to sponsor the Premier League, and the Glad Africa League is run like a spaza shop with continual court cases going on. We should just follow the Premier League model they use in England — it works, and it's not about the money but the principle and fairness in the game. We have lost  football sanity,  and it is totally unacceptable for Safa to leave it as it is. — Burton Brown, via email  The coronavirus is a reality and far too many people have already succumbed to it. The bad part is that people are still  ignoring Covid-19 safety rules, with many  still walking around in groups without  masks and drinking alcohol in public. This is happening openly in East London's CBD and no laws are enforced. Gambling is also taking place in the CBD and our law enforcement agencies  turn a blind eye to this, too. How? Crime is crime, and is punishable in terms of the law. These gatherings of alcohol abuse and gambling are superspreaders of the coronavirus and should be dealt with severely. It  could minimise the infection rate if our law enforcement agencies would act swiftly and arrest those drinking in public. Taverns are also superspreaders  as patrons do not adhere to Covid-19  rules and protocols in there. The government needs to deal with this ongoing problem of  taverns that fail to adhere to Covid-19  rules. — Roy D Claasen, via e-mail