Dispatch Dialogues are popular community engagement events hosted by Daily Dispatch.  With the various partners, Daily Dispatch brings together an array of renowned critical thinkers and political activists to discuss topics affecting South Africa and the Eastern Cape, As part of its public dialogue series and its intent to facilitate public conversations on topics of public interest, the Daily Dispatch in partnership with Afesis-Corplan are hosting a public dialogue that seeks to reflect on the past 20 years of democratic local governance in South Africa. Date:  Wednesday, 14 July 2021Time: 15:00 Click here to register for free. The event will be LIVE streamed on the DispatchLIVE Facebook page and attendees can engage with a Q&A session at the end. Nontando Ngamlana - ModeratorAfesis-Corplan - Executive Director Nontando Zintle Ngamlana holds an MBA from the Netherlands, an MDev, B.Sc Hon and a B.Sc in Applied Mathematics and Statistics, all from the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University. She has worked in the public, academic and NGO sectors in the past and has extensive experience in the design and use of participatory research methodologies. She is a seasoned development practitioner, a strategist and a social justice activist at heart. Tsakani MalulekeThe Auditor General of South Africa Tsakani Maluleke’s career as a Chartered Accountant spans more than 20 years, with experience in both the private and public sectors. She is the first woman to hold the position of Auditor General and has served on the Presidential BEE Advisory Council, as chairperson of the CA Charter Council, as a non-executive member of the Financial Advisory & Intermediary Services (FAIS) Ombud committee, and currently as the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants (SAICA) non-executive chairperson of the board.  Maluleke is passionate about actively contributing to advancing black people’s careers in the accountancy profession. Xolile GeorgeThe Chief Executive Officer of the South African Local Government Association Xolile George is the CEO of the South African Local Government Association (SALGA). His experience in policy, legislation, systems and programme implementation at a local, provincial and national level spans 28 years and is supported by a robust academic background. He holds an Honours Degree in Development Economics, an Executive MBA and several postgraduate Business diplomas and management certificates. Throughout his career, he has received numerous accolades in terms of leadership and achievements in successfully transforming various organizations. Ebrahim FakirDirector of Programmes at ASRI (Auwal Socio-Economic Research Institute) and Political Analyst Ebrahim Fakir is an illustrious political analyst, researcher, public speaker and published author in South Africa. After working at the first democratic Parliament of the Republic of South African in 1996 he joined the Institute for Democracy in South Africa as a Senior Researcher and later on as an Analyst at the Centre for Policy Studies in Johannesburg. He has also served as an Associate of the African Legislatures Project at the University of Cape Town. Until recently Fakir served as a manager of the Political Parties and Parliamentary Programme at the Electoral Institute for Sustainable Democracy in Africa (EISA). He writes in the popular press as well as academic and policy journals on politics, development, political economy and the state. A proud initiative of Daily Dispatch in partnership with Afesis-Corplan