Community — in different human contexts can be based on interest, action, plan, practice and circumstance. Many of the world’s issues are experienced at  neighbourhood and household level. Not all neighbourhoods’ and households’ experiences are the same from shocks to the economic, social and ecological environment, because of geographical location, equity, different historical trajectories, equality, and so forth. Aggregating the different, dominant national or regional issues to represent the challenges experienced at the neighbourhood level is flawed. Different neighbourhoods have different needs depending on their physical location, proximity to economic opportunities, access to resources (water and land), employment profile and sense of place. These issues give rise to many social, economic and environmental effects that positively or negatively affect neighbourhoods through feedback loops. Many neighbourhoods can and have become isolated from district and regional development. There is growing interest to improve collaboration between and within neighbourhoods, and to create an alternate future where these communities can foster an environment and social dynamic that improves conditions at the household and individual level. How does a community of place (neighbourhood) benefit from other communities such as communities of interests (share the same interest or passion), communities of expert practitioners (in science, engineering, technologists, humanities) and communities of action (trying to bring about change)? In most instances, these different communities operate in silos because of competition for resources, relevance and attention. The different communities’ modus operandi creates a paradigm where the interventions are either “top-down” or “bottom-up”. In addition, it creates an environment for spectators and active participants. Both these approaches have their merits and demerits based on the contexts and desired outcomes. Can a model of co-operation between the different communities (place, interests, practice and action) lead to improved local development? Many community initiatives fail because they organise interventions around a key actor — this can be a funder, implementer (practice), community activist(s) or interest groups (action), political party (interest) and a ward system based on political affiliations. These individualistic approaches often lead to interventions that do not have the support by all because of differences in beliefs, values, methods and techniques. We live in an era of excessive “whataboutism”, as different actors try to position themselves within communities (place) to establish relevancy and authority. However, current and emerging challenges can only be mitigated through developments that are sustainable and accepted by the majority. The primary objective should be to realise a positive effect on communities of place to navigate issues of poverty, health, growth and an improved sense of place. The concept of “common good” has been around since ancient times, popularised by philosophers such as Aristotle and Plato. Based on Aristotelian principles, “it is attainable only by the community, yet individually shared by its members”. A community in Limpopo has been using this co-operation model to improve water security. Water services to several communities are poor and many communities were still receiving water at or below the 25 litres per person per day RDP standard. The community of place was water insecure for some time until a community of action intervened. Out of this a community of interest developed that bought into the idea and the opportunities related to access to a more reliable water supply. The different communities were born out of the same section of the village. Using available know-how (indigenous knowledge), water supply sources were identified, and they developed an infrastructure layout plan. Using a crowdfunding approach, they raised the required funds to buy the required material. The community of interest provided the labour force and motivation to install about 4km of pipework in less than 10 days! Enter the Water Research Commission and its partners (African Development Bank, Tsogang Water &  Sanitation and the International Water Management Institute) — the community of expert practitioners in science, engineering, funding, project management and stakeholder engagement. The aim was set to develop the scheme, started by the local communities into a multiple-use water services scheme that would improve water and food security and economic opportunities. With the local communities, the community of expert practitioners set out to optimise the schemes,  using and explaining the science and engineering approaches. This approach led to the nurturing of mutual trust and contextualised solutions that ensure  the scheme remains maintainable into the future. The improved and more reliable supply scheme resulted in the stimulation of the local economy (through fruit, vegetable and livestock farming). Improved sanitation and the concomitant affects on dignity and health are also being realised. The scheme is not yet perfect but has come a long way from households only having water for a few days a week. The team  won the WRC’s Knowledge Tree Award in 2019 in the category Empowerment of Communities. We can juxtapose this project with many schemes where there are only one or two communities involved — which tend to be unsustainable in the long run. In many situations, there is an obvious need to develop an enabling environment that supports co-operation between different communities. This develops individual accountability and active responsibility and a move away from entitlement and the projectionist stance (where issues must always be solved by someone else, like the state). Rigid and hierarchical approaches rarely support the dynamism required for active and equal participation of different communities. There must be a shift in trust, relatedness and the nurturing of our social capital to create a new movement that will help us create an alternate future. We can expand this model to different challenges faced by communities to improve service delivery, food security, social ills and sense of place. Dr Shafick Adams is an executive manager at the Water Research Commission.