The stench on the streets of Cambridge this morning was hard to stomach from the nearby abattoir. This happens fairly often. Worse still, it seems  our abattoirs in the Eastern Cape are selling the meat of stolen stock from murdered farmers ("Criminal Cattle Barons Wage War on the Eastern Cape", DD Mar 8). I love meat but it will soon be a luxury that will compel us to vegetarianism. With no political will or capacity we may at least trust in the care of nature. — Chris, via e-mail  It was such a nerve-racking and painful scene to watch a group of five taxi operators chasing a driver who was alleged to have been giving a lift to a hitchhiking person. The poor guy was chased on the road past old Meyers Motors in East London CBD just after the bridge towards Buffalo City stadium. Without looking and full of fear, he ran across the road and was hit by an Avanza vehicle so badly that he flew above the vehicle and hit the ground hard. The  men ran away and I gave chase while speaking to the police and giving them directions for the men. I put my own life at risk but our cops couldn't pitch up as I was asking them to locate a close-by police vehicle but to no avail. That's another thing that depressed me. The injured man had fractures and was taken to hospital. I know who two of the guys are as I saw them face to face. — Siyabulela Nombembe, East London  I need to heartily congratulate Tom Eaton for his column “While the Ether Bubbled with False Babble, Scientists Saved the Day” (DD March 12). Every word he wrote made sense and was a pleasure to read. In fact, his  column is one of my favourite reads in this, my favourite newspaper! Thank you Tom, and continue writing for many years to come. — The Rev Canon Graeme Deas, via e-mail  Congratulations to Ulwazi and Vulamazibuko high schools for carrying the flag of  Mdantsane  high with their 100% matric pass marks, especially in such a difficult year. I just want to single out Ulwazi, which has for achieved  this for five or six years. — Mzwandile Mqotyana, Mdantsane