Two Border women cricketers  and a coach are preparing  to jet off to Bangladesh with the SA Emerging  side for a five-match one-day series. Border head coach Angelique Taai, Nobulumko Baneti and Khayakazi Mathe are in the squad for the tour   from March 28 to April 16. The series  will be played at the Sylhet International Cricket Stadium. Taai has been appointed  assistant coach to Dinesha Devnarai and is focused on the task at hand. The 33-year-old has been one of the success stories of SA cricket. From a 13-year-old prodigy to playing for the national side, she retired a  Border legend. She then made the transition to coaching, heading the Border team and  and now advancing to  be  part of the national team coaching setup. Taai is delighted for the Border players,  who have grown from strength to strength. Baneti  has  a bright future, with many in cricketing circles expecting her to graduate to the  Proteas team.  She has made her way through the ranks from mini cricket, the SA girls’ teams and the national academy. The Bangladesh tour  is  a chance for Baneti to showcase her talent and test her bowling skills  in foreign conditions. There is a feeling of excitement and nervousness among  the Border contingent. “Words cannot even explain the way I’m feeling — I am so excited,” Baneti said. “I’m very grateful to get this opportunity to be part of this tour. “It is important for me to get exposure to new histories, cultures, ideas and people. “We, as a team, want to win all the ODIs.” Mathe  shares the same sentiments   and is particularly looking forward to her first overseas trip and representing her country for the first time. “I’m excited and at the same time I’m nervous, because this is my first tour with the SA Emerging team,” she said. “It is also the first time I’m going out of the country. I want to perform there, I want to make the team happy, I want to make SA happy. “I’m going to a new environment, going out of the country, and I want to learn new things. I want to socialise with people I’m not used to, like my teammates.” The SA squad will leave for Bangladesh on Saturday and will have a three-day quarantine period upon arrival. “The SA Emerging women’s side bridges the gap between provincial and international cricket,” Cricket SA said in a statement. “The concept of this high-performance programme is to provide competitive international standard cricket for fringe players, as well as to provide the opportunity for the development of younger talent coming through the national pathway system.” SA Emerging squad:  Andrie Steyn, Anneke Bosch, Annerie Dercksen, Leah Jones, Faye Tunnicliffe, Jade de Figuerido, Jenay Winster, Khayakazi Mathe, Kirstie Thomson, Nondumiso Precious Shangase, Micheala Andrews, Nonkululeko Baneti, Robyn Searle, Sinalo Jafta, Tebogo Macheke. Management: Dinesha Devnarain (coach), Angelique Taai (assistant coach), Kristy Devine (physio), Omphile Dikgetsi (strengthening and conditioning coach), Marcia Letsoalo (manager), Abram Ndhlovu (video analyst), Lizanne Pieterse (doctor). DispatchLIVE