Principal and agency owners Barbara and Kevin Bezuidenhout said they wanted to establish an agency with a good reputation and strong values. “We are creating a legacy for our children, our staff and clients, so Legacy Properties was exactly the direction we were going in.” Shortly after setting up the business in February last year, COVID-19 struck and they had to rethink everything they thought they knew about the business. “Covid hit us hard,” said Barbara. Kevin added: “We didn’t even have a chance to do our opening ceremony and everyone was sent home to work, so we had to think of new ways to get our name out there.  Fortunately, we are blessed with Jared our son, who is also an agent, but has fantastic skills in IT and marketing on social media.” Their daughter Kaylynne Otto keeps everyone in check as the office administrator. “The interest rates coming down was a big plus for people wanting to buy houses.” “We set up links to property for people to view and then they would book an appointment to see the house.” Barbara said: “Covid taught us to redesign how we market and sell properties. We aim to become a modern real estate agency, and pride ourselves on keeping up with the trends. Every house is professionally photographed and videoed. It makes no difference if your house is in Mdantsane or Bunker’s Hill – we treat every client the same.” The couple believed another reason for their success over the past year was that they had employed a diverse staff complement and given them the freedom to pursue their property interests. “We aim to train our staff to leave, but treat them well enough to stay,” said Kevin. They started with six staff members, but the business grew so quickly that they now have 14. Barbara said a lot of clients weren’t aware of all the facts of selling or buying property. “That’s where we come in. Kevin is a qualified electrician and contractor so he is really good at identifying faults that need to be fixed before the property is sold.” Legacy Properties has an extensive rental portfolio. “We are very firm on insisting rental houses must be in good order, and then we can find good tenants for the house,” said Kevin. “We have to keep all of our clients happy.” Legacy Properties has listings in East London, Gonubie, Mdantsane, Mthatha, Butterworth and on the East Coast. Barbara said: “We are very proud to say we were established in Covid 2020. Our website is very modern and our team thinks out of the box to keep it fresh.” Kevin said they have had obstacles, but have come out on the other side even stronger. Barbara said: “Legacy itself is extremely excitable and passionate. We feel we offer something different. “We are a one-stop shop. We like the challenge so we will give it our best shot. “We are good at adapting to the market and we have the experience to assist, plus the best team of staff.” Our mantra is:  Teamwork makes the dream work. “We would like to thank all our clients for their support and encourage anyone who is looking to buy or sell property to come speak to us first. Our dedicated team is ready to assist you.”​ Address: 12 4th Avenue, Gonubie, East London, 5247Tel: 043 422 0345