While everyone was protecting themselves and their loved ones from Covid-19, East London resident Nontozamo Xozwa, 54, created a Facebook group called Covid-19 Community Support Group in March 2020 to help patients find simple solutions to fight and survive the virus. The group, which has more than 109,000 members, has helped many patients deal with the psychosocial effects of the virus. Originally from Mthatha, Xozwa worked at the OR Tambo district municipality as an HIV/Aids coordinator from 2003, and then moved to Amathole municipality in the same capacity. “Because of the background I have in establishing support groups for people infected with HIV and Aids, the Covid-19 Community Support Group started when I realised that people who were infected with the virus had to isolate themselves, and had no-one to talk to,” she said. “Providing psychosocial support was vital, since the virus was quite scary last year and affected people mentally.” Xozwa said they shared practical advice on how to deal with the virus at home, and make sure people adhered to  lockdown regulations. “People in the group share their personal experiences of Covid-19, and how they dealt with isolation. Many of them give feedback which has helped the group a lot. We don't talk about death and statistics, because they cause fear and anxiety,” she said. “We emphasise behavioural change; washing of hands, sanitising and the wearing of masks. As group members we help each other by buying vitamins, eucalyptus oil and toiletries for those who need them, especially those in hospitals.” The challenges of controlling and monitoring the interactions of such a large group is a bit overwhelming for Xozwa, but she has stood up and helped those who were in desperate need. “Lately, we no longer talk about Covid-19 only. We have included other social ills including HIV and Aids, TB and STIs. We are doing awareness campaigns dealing with the stigma caused by Covid-19. I would love big companies to assist with sponsoring toiletries and over the counter medication as part of social responsibility,” she said. Facebook group member Noluvuko Makohliso-Jizana, who nominated Xozwa for the Local Hero award, described her as a person with a sense of humour and a strong Christian belief. “The support group allows people to share their personal experience about the virus, their feelings, fears, coping strategies, and survivor stories to encourage positivity,” said Makohliso-Jizana. “The group disseminates key messages as prescribed by the World Health Organisation with an emphasis on healthy behavioural change for its members, and dealing with the stigma of the virus. “Xozwa is an unsung hero in my community who has helped many throughout the pandemic,” she said. DispatchLIVE