Athenkosi Fani, a community activist, philanthropist and Walter Sisulu University student has been selected to be a part of the Cyril Ramaphosa Foundation’s events, sponsors and social subcommittee. The team  is tasked with organising all the logistics for foundation events, including state visits, graduation ceremonies, and fundraisers. The foundation also has an entity called the Cyril Ramaphosa Education Trust (CRET), which funds 200 university students across the country. Fani, who is a part of CRET, said the opportunity to work on the foundation’s subcommittee was surreal. Fani spent most of his childhood being transferred between different foster homes as his mother was unwell. He said his disadvantaged background had not informed the person he had become. Fani, who is also the founder of his own organisation called Boniswa LGBTQI, said being chosen for the foundation validated that he was bigger than his situation. “God has a plan, and it is to prosper me,” he said. “I am so grateful for this opportunity as it came at a time when I was depressed and unhappy. “When I applied, I didn’t think I would get in as there were so many other students from bigger universities  in the running.” He said the role on the subcommittee would allow him to work  for the betterment of communities, especially the marginalised. Fani said he was an activist for all marginalised groups, including the LGBTQI community. “I am eager to bring a change. We are all somewhere because of someone.” Fani said the foundation's event activities were on hold due to Covid-19, but the role had started with immediate effect. Thaphelo Chacha, the chair of the events committee, said Fani had been one of the first people to submit an application. “His eagerness to get to work was evident through his motivation letter and supporting documents,” Chacha said. As the chair, Chacha said, he sat on the advisory board and the need for more hands had propelled the committee to source new members to join. Chacha said he had picked four applicants from different universities across the country who would join the team. Fani said his organisation hoped to make a difference while working with people, especially in the LGBTQI community. “Our stories are not being told; we need to tell our stories. “I believe the time for marginalised groups to take up their space has arrived. It is now,” he said. DispatchLIVE