The LGBTQIA+ community is reeling after the murder of Andile “Lulu” Ntuthela, a gay man from KwaNobuhle in the Eastern Cape. On social media, calls for justice and protection of the community are mounting as scores express shock over the gruesome murder. Here’s what you need to know: HeraldLIVE reported that Ntuthela’s family last saw him on March 31 when he left to visit a friend. His cousin, Asanda Ntuthela, said he hadn’t returned by the Easter weekend but they were not worried as he usually spent time with friends. A week later, Asanda heard the police had received a tip-off about a body buried in the home of Ntuthela’s friend, who is now a suspect in his murder. The police made no breakthrough in the initial investigation. At the weekend, she became worried after hearing police had discovered the “body of a gay guy” at the home of the suspect and she immediately went to the scene. She showed the suspect’s family a photograph of Ntuthela, taken on the day of his disappearance, and they were shocked because they had allegedly found the same clothes covered in blood. Police spokesperson Col Priscilla Naidu told TimesLIVE the suspect will appear in the KwaNobuhle magistrate’s court on Tuesday  to face a murder charge. The suspect was taken in for mental evaluation on April 1 after his family reported him for burning bedding in his home in Montana street. On April 9 he was detained and charged for malicious damage to property. Naidu said details about Ntuthela’s murder emerged during questioning, prompting them to return to the suspect’s home for further investigation. This is when his body was found buried. The Gay and Lesbian Association of SA (Glasa) condemned Ntuthela’s murder and called for the justice system to ensure perpetrators face harsher sentences for their crimes. “The recent acts of gender-based violence against members of the LGBTQIA+ community calls for a concerted and collective effort from  members and organisations of the community. They must unite for a common purpose and call for harsher sentencing and prioritisation of LGBTQIA+ hate crimes,” said Glasa. Scores have taken to social media to demand justice for Ntuthela. Here are some responses: TimesLIVE