Ambulances, police and social workers were rushed to a school in Makhanda on Monday after dozens of pupils developed strange symptoms, leading some to believe they had been “captured by evil spirits”. While no one at the school was prepared to comment, Ntsika Secondary School posted on social media that they had been facing some difficulties at their premises since Friday last week. “Learners feel ill with an unknown problem,” said the post. Education spokesman Malibongwe Mtima on Monday confirmed that it had been reported to the local education office in Makhanda that pupils had been “captured by evil spirits”. They had immediately called together concerned parents, the social development department, office along with health workers, and pastors to ensure the safety of the learners. “As management we oraganised a prayer meeting for Monday inviting all reverends and pastors from various denominations in Makhanda. As they started the session in the morning learners started to cry and fall, in particular the girls. Ambulances, police and social workers were roped in.” He said the situation was so chaotic parents had been called to fetch their children. “After some time the situation calmed and prayers took place and learners were later released to go home and asked to come back on Wednesday.” This would allow the parents and local religious leaders to plan a way forward. He said parents and pasters would continue to pray and do “cleansing” rituals in classrooms and corridors. While it remains unclear what caused the unusual behaviour of the pupils, similar incidents have been known to happen at other schools over the years. In February last year pupils at Mountview Secondary School in KwaZulu Natal also began falling down, rolling on the floor and praying loudly, forcing a brief closure of the school. At the time it was attributed to a form of mass hysteria. The social media post by Ntsika Secondary said the school would remain closed on Tuesday and a prayer vigil held. “We invite the learners who were affected and their parents to attend the prayer vigil. It will begin at 7:40am. Please ensure that you wear a mask and observe all covid-19 regulations.” DispatchLIVE