The University of Fort Hare Blues are looking forward to the FNB Varsity Shield bye as they want to regroup before going back to Pretoria for the second round of the tournament. The Blues have had a rough start to the tournament, finding life tough in the bubble. They picked up three losses on the spin against the Cape Peninsula University of Technology, the University of KwaZulu-Natal and Walter Sisulu University. A 48-14 win over Eastern Cape rivals Rhodes University secured the Alice side's first win of the tournament. Tries from Yamkela Mzozoyana (2), Lukhanyiso Tosholwana, Keith Chiwara (2), Lwazi Madiba and Lukho Jongizulu secured the commanding victory. UFH will now go on a break before returning to face the Durban University of Technology on May 4. They head home with a bit of momentum and their spirits high following their morale-boosting victory. The side wants to return to Pretoria, better their showing and have a strong finish to the tournament, according to their captain, Ymakela Mzozonyana. “It hasn't been an easy tournament for us; we lost three games but we managed to pull ourselves together. “We knew it was not the end of life — we lost a game of rugby, not life. “I'm excited my team won. “I'm looking forward to the second phase of the bubble,”  Mzozonyana said. Lukhanyiso Tosholwana, who was the standout performer against Rhodes, even getting the FNB Player that Rocks award, urged his side to improve when they returned to the bubble. “We did not play well in our first time in the bubble  . “We want to go home and fix our mistakes, and come back to the second bubble and play our best,”  Tosholwana said. The tournament's whipping boys have been Rhodes University. They have taken three lashings and will appreciate the break afforded by the bye. They will return to action against the WSU All Blacks in what will be a difficult game for the Makhanda outfit. The All Blacks, on the other hand,  had a contrasting tournament experience compared to their Eastern Cape rivals. They  had the Varsity Shield on a chokehold. Akhona Mgijima's team is in second place with 15 points, having played three games — one fewer than the side on top, CPUT. The Varsity Shield will return on  May 2, as the tournament then pushes towards the concluding stages. DispatchLIVE