 Stirling High is wary about the timing of allowing the return of contact sports in schools, in light of the predicted Covid-19 third wave. The department of basic education recently announced that schools could resume with contact sports. When asked by DispatchLIVE what it’s return to sport plan was, the school said in a statement that it was being cautious in its approach to reintroducing contact sports, stressing that the safety of pupils, staff and their families was of priority. The school is concerned government’s decision to permit the return of school contact sports and competitive matches poses a serious safety risk. “The Gazette 44339 which came out a week ago allows all sports to return and this includes contact sports like rugby and netball. “Clearly, this is a far cry from what we have safely allowed up to this point,” read the statement. “We have followed safety protocols and common sense principles up to now, and the reintroduction of contact sports without a mask is clearly a major concern. “A huge concern is a fact that our scientists are predicting an imminent third wave within weeks of reintroducing contact sports. “Border schools sports have obviously put pressure on schools to reintroduce contact sports as certain trials are starting next week. “The school has gone on to seek consultation with parents through a survey about the return of contact sports and their children’s participation. “We, therefore, have decided to send out a survey to all parents to gauge their feeling on this very important matter and are awaiting their responses. “Once the results of our survey are in, we will take a call on the resumption of sport, taking into account the latest scientific evidence available. “We will continue to monitor the evidence and adjust our sporting activities based on scientific facts.” Stirling has an impressive sports programme that was halted, as with other schools, by the pandemic. The school is known for producing top athletes in swimming, water polo, hockey and cricket. At the start of 2021, Stirling eased its guard and launched its sports programmes. Non-contact sports have been under way, focusing on conditioning and skills, with cricket matches played internally. DispatchLIVE 