Western Mpondoland King Ndamase Ndlovuyezwe Ndamase lashed out at traditional leaders  who act as a law unto themselves and rule their communities with an iron first, saying it was wrong for them to treat their people as nonentities, and instead of developing their communities enrich themselves. “Traditional leaders should not be a law unto themselves. They should be the people’s servant as  their existence and essence of royalty is due to the people they lead and the land they are custodians of,” Ndamase said. Ndamase, who is also the chair  of the King Victor Poto royal family, was officiating at the installation of Nkosi Mbizeni Bakhanyise Nqetho, 48, as headman of the Mhlanganisweni administrative area in Libode on Saturday. He urged Nqetho to be a servant of his people, “a shepherd of his flock and not to act as a wolf”. “We are traditional leaders because of the people we lead, so we must always strive for their survival, development, their health, and as their leaders we must always lead by example, and respect the people we are tasked to lead. “We should be their servants. We must not try to be gods, or a law unto ourselves. “Let us rule with humanity, care and kindness, and in the process create or strengthen nationalism and patriotism,” the king said. Ndamase said unity and the development of Mhlanganisweni were  sacrosanct He called for unity among members of royal families, saying that united royal families  resulted in  stable traditional leadership structures, while infighting among royal families destabilised the entire traditional community. He said a traditional leader’s patience and serenity should win the admiration of the people he leads. The king said communities should play a leading role in strengthening their traditional leader, for the sake of development of the community. The event was attended by OR Tambo district mayor Thokozile Sokanyile, Nyandeni mayor Mesuli Ngqondwana and ANC Nyandeni subregional secretary Zamekile Nondlevu, among others. King Ndamase said that the new headman should establish strong co-operation with government structures, the kingdom and fellow traditional leaders. The new headman succeeds Nkosi Dalukhanyo Mdingi who led the community for more than 30 years. Mdingi and his wife were buried on the same day in June 2020 after succumbing to the coronavirus.