A father figure, a guider and someone who was eager to see people grow. This is how justice minister and correctional services Ronald Lamola described the late minister in the presidency, Jackson Mthembu. Mthembu died from Covid-19 complications in the early hours of Thursday morning. Speaking to TimesLIVE just moments after the announcement of Mthembu’s death, Lamola said the ANC and the country had lost a great leader — and that he, personally, had lost someone he saw as a father figure. “It’s not a nice thing, particularly for us who worked very well with him. He was almost like a father figure for us and, ja, you know, things happen,” Lamola said, seemingly at a loss for words. “I’m sure even you guys [the media] enjoyed working with him because he was not a difficult guy. He would engage, he would be cordial and all that,” he added. President Cyril Ramaphosa confirmed that Mthembu had died in the early hours of Thursday morning. Mthembu tested positive for Covid-19 last week. Lamola said he and his comrades had always looked up to Mthembu, who was always available and willing to  provide guidance. Even in the cabinet Mthembu would  chastise and guide his colleagues, Lamola said. “We are heartbroken and really dejected at this big loss for the ANC and for the country, and for ourselves who are the young ones. As we were growing as people we were looking up to him, who gave us guidance from time to time. “If he was not agreeing with you, he would tell you you’re out of order and call you to order. Even now in the cabinet, he would call you and say, 'you are out of order'. But he would always give you a task and space to grow and to understand the whole of government,” he said. Mthembu has been at the forefront of the government’s fight against the coronavirus, as he was responsible for communicating the government’s messages in the fight against the pandemic. Ramaphosa described him as an “exemplary leader, an activist and lifelong champion of freedom and democracy”. “He was a much-loved and greatly respected colleague and comrade, whose passing leaves our nation at a loss,” Ramaphosa said. TimesLIVE