Cricket SA have confirmed that the Momentum One-Day Cup will commence on Saturday  January 9, with a revised number of 15 matches set to take place at Senwes Park, Potchefstroom. The 50-over competition has been relocated to a one-stadium biosecure environment (BSE) and will be played behind closed doors to minimise the risk of transmission of Covid-19. The six competing franchises remain divided into two pools of three teams each. The defending champions, the Hollywoodbets Dolphins, share pool A with the Momentum Multiply Titans and VKB Knights, and are scheduled to play each other on a home and away basis within their pool between January 9 and 16. The Imperial Lions, Six Gun Grill Cobras and Warriors make up pool B and are set to get their campaign underway between January 29 and February 5. Originally, the sides were expected to play a single round of cross-pool matches, but instead, the top two teams of each pool will go head-to-head in the semifinals on  February 11 and  12, with Senwes Park hosting the final on  February 14. CSA Director of Cricket Graeme Smith said: “It is great to be able to reaffirm that the Momentum One-Day Cup is going ahead this summer. It is the first limited-overs competition of the season and the respective franchises are raring to get going following a couple of weeks out of competitive action. “It is unfortunate that we have to reduce the number of matches being played and move the entire competition to one venue, but the restrictions need to be put in place to ensure the tournament goes ahead in a safe environment in accordance with government regulations.” Pool A will enter the BSE on Monday evening in preparation for the opening fixture between the Titans and Dolphins on Saturday, starting at 10am. “Cricket SA is also pleased to confirm that all 15 matches will be televised live on SuperSport. With both our domestic and international tournaments currently being played behind closed doors, there is a strong appetite for live cricket. “Televising every match will give fans unprecedented access to domestic cricket and showcase local talent in the absence of attending matches,” he said. CSA has  introduced a new ICC playing condition for how tied matches will be determined: "If the Super Over is a tie, subsequent Super Overs shall be played limited to a minimum of one  and a maximum of three  to determine the winner. If all three Super Overs are tied the match shall be declared as a tie and the match points only will be shared. — Cricket SA