The suspension of  councillors implicated in irregularities around the distribution of food vouchers is a step in the right direction. On Wednesday Cogta MEC Xolile Nqatha suspended two BCM councillors  — Kuhle Ciliza of ward 1 and Roseline Vitbooi and of ward 10 — for three months on allegations of their questionable practices in the metro's  R30m food voucher programme. Their salaries will be docked  for the  period. The MEC's stance, though  lenient, may be  welcome news for those who waited in despair for state assistance last year when all activities came to a standstill due to a coronavirus-induced lockdown. The two  disgraced councillors  are accused of excluding their ward committees and working with  handpicked   individuals to identify  families for the food voucher programme. In the process some of the destitute were bypassed. One of the councillors  even had the audacity to distribute vouchers meant for her ward in  areas that fall out of her jurisdiction,  excluding the people who voted her into office. It is  these kinds of actions that break public trust between communities and their representatives. People end up not knowing where to direct their grievances, hence the massive service delivery protests  we have witnessed across the country in recent times. Legitimate questions about how such self-serving individuals were elected have to be asked. A worrying  factor is that both Vitbooi and Ciliza  face other corruption charges in separate incidents. Vitbooi is accused  of pocketing R5,000 meant as a donation from council to a grieving family in her ward, and Ciliza   is  alleged to have solicited a R50,000 bribe from a musician who was awarded sponsorship by BCM. Through the alleged malpractices in food distribution, the councillors  did not only violate  regulations governing how public representatives should behave but also  the rights of those  they serve and their dignity. Life has been very difficult under the lockdown regulations as many people's livelihoods are negatively impacted by restrictions on movements and trade. Therefore any help from government should  reach the intended beneficiaries without fail. While we welcome Nqatha's reprimand of the duo, we must not lose track of the fact that there were numerous complaints of  corruption around the metro's food programme last year. It is in this light that we hope  the MEC will  cast his net wider  and bring to book  everyone who might have misappropriated funds meant for the destitute. The time to act is now.