 Newly-appointed Chippa United coach Dan Malesela hopes the 1-0 victory over his former team TS Galaxy in their DStv Premiership match at Mbombela Stadium on Saturday is the start of things to come. Malesela, 55, who is in his fourth stint at Chippa, was brought in once again to save the team from relegation, replacing axed Lehlohonolo Seema. In his first two matches at the helm, the 55-year-old coach drew 2-2 against SuperSport United  followed by a 1-0 defeat to Golden Arrows. But he managed to get his first three points on Saturday as an early goal from Frederic Nsabiyumva saw the Chilli Boys back on the right path. Saturday's win was Chippa's first three-pointer on the road this season. The former Orlando Pirates and Mamelodi Sundowns star said the victory was a good start towards achieving their mandate. “As we expected it was a tight game,” Malesela said. “We did well to score the goal  early in four minutes. We had chances that we could have converted in the first half after the goal, but we let them slip. “One thing we did is that we defended  well though we  put ourselves under pressure sometimes which was  unnecessary. “But  we defended well and  kept a clean sheet. So it’s good, it’s a start of things.” Goal scorer Nsabiyumva said he was happy to have contributed to his team’s success. “It was not an easy game but we came here to fight. We knew the position  we were in was not  good. We needed to step up to move forward.  We came here for three points. “Thank God we managed the game well and  got our victory. I also thank God for the goal. I contributed something to the team. “We tried to keep a clean sheet. It’s been 10 games that we played without a clean sheet so today we managed to be tight at the back and not concede any goals.” The Burundian defender admits it was difficult at first to adjust to Malesela’s  system of coaching after Seema left. However, the player says they now understand how the coach wants them to play. “I can see now it’s coming into place and it's working. Now we just have to score more goals when we get the chances,” Nsabiyumva said. Chippa next play in-form Moroka Swallows at Dobsonville Stadium on Wednesday (5pm). HeraldLIVE