Mthatha residents and businesses have been warned to brace themselves for a 12-hour planned power outage on Sunday. In a notice sent to Dispatch,LIVE King Sabata Dalindyebo municipal manager Ngamela Pakade said the blackout, from 6am until 6pm, would allow the municipality to facilitate the construction of a 66kv power line upgrade project. “It is the first of several outages that will be required to successfully upgrade the Mthatha 66kv line,” he said. “As the supply of electricity may be restored without warning at any time, consumers are warned to treat their electricity as live throughout this period.” However, concerns have been raised that the situation could also affect the town's water supply which was dependent on the availability of electricity. It was also believed that it could potentially affect small businesses, especially those in the food industry. Pakade revealed that Sunday's planned blackout would affect the town and several residential areas including Hillcrest, Northcrest, Ncambedlana, Norwood, Police Camp, a portion of Fortgale suburb, Mandela Park, Chris Hani, Slovo Park informal settlements and Maiden Farm. Last year KSD municipal bosses said the outages were an important part of refurbishment work on the damaged 66kv line which supplied electricity to many residential suburbs, townships and even informal settlements. Mthatha Ratepayers and Residents Association spokesperson Madyibi Ngxekana said on Friday even though they understood the importance of upgrades being carried out on Mthatha's electricity infrastructure, they were more worried that the situation could also leave them without any water again. Previously, DispatchLIVE has reported how many parts of Mthatha were left high and dry without water for weeks last month due to what OR Tambo district municipality described as sabotage to water pumps by its own striking workers. “The supply of water remains our biggest challenge,” Ngxekana said. “Even in the event that the electricity comes back, it still takes more hours for the water supply to be restored. They [KSD] should link with OR Tambo to ensure that those water pumps continue to work even during a blackout.” Eastern Cape Chamber of Business president Vuyisile Ntlabati said the situation would have serious financial implications for small businesses. “People should be told way in advance[about these planned outages]so that they can make alternative arrangements.” He said those in the food industry would feel the pinch. “This stop-start maintenance is not really doing anyone a favour. KSD municipality should ensure that they budget correctly so that they don't do maintenance now and keep quiet for months and then start again.” OR Tambo district municipal spokesperson Zimkhitha Macingwane said in line with the R5bn KSD Presidential Intervention Programme launched by then state president Jacob Zuma in 2009 to help revitalise ailing infrastructure in Mthatha and surrounds, the district authority had initiated a bulk infrastructure project for the Thornhill water substation. The first phase of the project involves installing newer and bigger water pipes which would be followed by the installation of a mega generator. “This will ensure that even in cases of power outages, the backup system will be able to kick and water supply would continue,” she said. The district municipality, which was appointed as the water service authority in KSD and other four other local municipalities in its jurisdiction, was also working towards building bigger water reservoirs as most of the existing ones were just too small. DispatchLIVE