A R23m project to upgrade dilapidated sewer  systems in Mthatha’s oldest township of Ngangelizwe is  to resume,  two years after it was abruptly stopped. This was revealed by OR Tambo district mayor Thokozile Sokanyile on Thursday during a visit to Ngangelizwe to officially hand over to the new contractor, Manco Business Enterprise. Sokanyile issued a heartfelt apology to the residents for the delay. DispatchLIVE  previously reported that a contractor, appointed to implement the sewer upgrades in 2019, abruptly stopped work. She explained that council initially did not understand what the residents of Ngangelizwe had to endure. But it had since seen  first-hand how raw effluent was spilling into people’s homes. “Council said it did not really understand the problem when we were telling them about it.” Despite Sokanyile’s explanation about the delay, tempers rose during Thursday’s meeting as some people were unhappy with how the contractor was appointed. They said the project had initially been stopped because of several flaws. “We fought for the project not to be stopped but the people wanted to know how the contractor had been appointed,” said Thato Sikhonyela, the ANC branch leader in Ngangelizwe. “All we are asking for is transparency. It must be made clear whether the consultant will appoint local SMMEs as sub-contractors or if that will be the responsibility of the main contractor.” He said the people of Ngangelizwe were at the mercy of blocked manholes, which were spilling raw effluent into their  homes. OR Tambo district municipal spokesperson Zimkhita Macingwane told DispatchLIVE the project would involve upgrades of the old sewer reticulation system. Over the years had had become overloaded and the asbestos pipes had degenerated, he explained. The  project would involve an upgrade of all bulk pipelines,  pump stations and  waste stabilisation ponds in the township. Eastern Cape business chamber  president Vuyisile Ntlabati said  municipal bosses were being too reactive, rather than taking a proactive approach to  the ailing infrastructure of Mthatha and surrounds. “It is not only Ngangelizwe that has this problem,” he said. “Pipes are old everywhere in Mthatha. They need to do an audit of their infrastructure and  devise a proper maintenance plan.” Mthatha Ratepayers and Residents Association spokesperson Madyibi Ngxekana agreed. Most of the infrastructure in Mthatha was more than 50 years old, he said, and  new and stronger pipes should be laid underground. DispatchLIVE