Alan Toweel believes his charge Bangile Nyangani was not ready when he was matched for the South African title in only his fifth professional fight four years ago. But on Saturday, the Mthatha-born boxer will be ready when he challenges Siyakholwa Kuse for the mini-flyweight belt in Stirling,  East London. With only four fights under his belt and at just 21 years of age, Nyangani was matched against homeboy Siphamandla Baleni for the SA mini-flyweight title without having earned the title shot by beating a boxer of note. The difference in experience was evident as Nyangani was outmuscled en route to a points loss. After the defeat, Nyangani packed his bags and trekked to Johannesburg to join Toweel of the Toweel boxing dynasty. Since that union, Nyangani has never lost a bout, with the only blemish being a draw against amateur rival Sibusiso Bandla, which Toweel still disputes. Now having reeled off six wins and a draw, with a couple of regional titles on his cabinet, Nyangani is ready to win the national belt. “I am  confident that it is only now that Bangile is ready to win the national title,” said Toweel. “I know former amateur starts abroad are more developed than our boxers here, hence I feel Bangile was premature when he was taken to a title shot back then. “He was still green but now he has matured. In fact, we have been chasing for this opportunity since January.” Nyangani is  a decorated amateur boxer who has consistently won medals at national championships. While he has never shared the stage with Kuse, as the latter was in the juniors, Nyangani kept collecting the accolades and was tipped as  future champion. Toweel feels his charge would still be unbeaten had it not been for poor management by his former handlers. But he reasons the hard-punching star is still destined for big things. “He is still young and already enjoys ratings by the major world bodies,” he says. “But I believe the national title is a barometer with which to measure the progress of the boxer, hence I want him to win it. “Then we can unleash him on the world, where I believe he will prove his mettle.” The fight, organised by Tewo Promotions, was originally scheduled for June 13 before being moved to Saturday after the organisers battled to secure a venue. After a desperate search, Tewo  settled for a badminton venue. It will be the second time Tewo stages a tournament in an unfamiliar venue after the new promoter’s first show was hosted in a church hall in Wilsonia. The boxers will undergo their premedical examinations on Tuesday, with Nyangani’s being done in Johannesburg, and Kuse’s in East London.