The Border Bulldogs delivered a clinical performance to defeat EP Elephants 41-20 in their Currie Cup First Division encounter at Police Park on Saturday. The derby win was Border’s first of the season and with the maximum points secured they also managed to claim provincial bragging rights. In his pre-match interview, Border head coach Lumumba Currie said he wanted his side to be disciplined in their approach in the game and they delivered. There were standout performances from Litha Nkula, Yamnkela Mzozoyana and Sicelo Tole. It was an 80-minute game from Border as they did everything right. There was improvement in their set pieces. They had the upper hand in scrums, line-outs and executions of their mauls. They were also immense at the breakdowns. What was pleasing for Border was the six tries they scored and those were a result of ball retention in their attacking phases. The first half epitomised what a derby should have, emotion and passion. It was evenly-contested even though Border went to the interval with a 14-8 lead. The home side set the tempo for the match as they stamped their authority in the opening stages. The confidence of Border was evident in the two tries they scored. The first came from captain Billy Dutton and the second from Thabo Ntunja. For the away side, their points came from Riaan Arends and a penalty from Josh Alderman. The second stanza is where Border ran riot and they crossed the white line four times. Lwandile Maphuko and Litha Nkula were at their devastating best. Maphuko scored after piercing through the EP defence. He then broke through the EP defensive line and set up Nkula for his second try. Minutes earlier, he had scored a perfect winger try. Nkula was also having a colossal with the boot as he kicked four conversions and a penalty. EP’s Davian Swanepoel provided spark in attack scoring two tries while the rest of the EP supporting cast did not show up. The fitting moment in the game was when Yamnkela Mzozoyana scored his first try for Border in his third cap. The embrace he got from his teammates summed up his man of the match performance. The win gives Border a platform to build in their season. They next face SWD in their fourth game. Scorers: Bulldogs: Tries: Billy Dutton, Thabo Ntunja, Lwandile Maphuko, Litha Nkula (2), Yamnkela Mzozoyana; Conversions: Nkula (4); Penalty: Nkula Elephants: Tries: Riaan Arends, Davian Swanepoel (2); Conversion: Luvo Claasen; Penalty: Josh Alderman