The animal cruelty case against the speaker of the National Assembly, Thandi Modise, has been dismissed by the Potchefstroom regional magistrate's court. The NSPCA, along with others, took her to court for animal cruelty after their inspectors  found scores of dead animals, including chickens, geese and sheep. In a dramatic turn of events her legal team were able to convince the magistrate that there was not enough proof against her. This shocked me. She owned the farm on which pigs turned to cannibalism because they were being starved and neglected. If she should not shoulder any responsibility for cruelty to animals on her farm then who should? The workers? That court judgment should be appealed. It should be appealed as high as  the Supreme Court of Appeal if there is a need. — Samkelo Latakisa, via e-mail The letter “Call for Ancestors Day” (DD18 May) refers. SA already has too many public holidays. Our faltering economy cannot afford  any more. Surely  uplifting  the  poor in our land is a higher priority. We already have Heritage Day to celebrate our  cultural heroes. If we must have Ancestors Day, rather change Heritage Day and give it that name. Or, as an alternative, do away with either Family Day or Boxing Day. — Reverend Canon Graeme Deas, Beacon Bay The government  should be ashamed of itself for by not honouring salary agreements  signed  in 2018. Most public servants are not  earning much. Money is  wasted left and right, and fraud and corruption are  the order of the day. The minister of public service & administration, Senzo Mchunu, keeps  promising   he will consult with the unions. What for? He is the minister, so he must do the right thing, as the workers  are crying foul. The signed agreement until 2021 should have been honoured as it was a legal document, but now the government  is playing hide and seek. Shame on you, Mchunu, and  on finance minister Tito Mboweni as well, for letting workers endure so much unpleasantness. Government of promises, kindly do what is right and give public servants what is due to them until 2021. The consequences  of not honouring  what was signed for might have devastating  effects in fthe uture. What is happening currently, not giving workers what is due to them, is daylight robbery. Roy D Claasen, via e-mail