A visit to a hair salon can be a daunting experience for a young child, but two sisters from Ilitha township believe they have just the right business model to cater for  even the most temperamental of toddlers. Phaphama Molefe, 36, and Zanda Booi, 35, own Perky Hair, a salon that caters specifically  for children between the ages of two and 14. Not only do the sisters manage their own salon, they also have a range of Perky Hair products for tender  scalps. Perky Hair opened its doors for business on April 26 this year and is situated  behind the BMW dealership at 31 Stewart Drive in Berea. Booi said they were mothers of children aged two and 10 years and the struggle of negotiating with their little ones to visit a hair salon was the inspiration for opening up their own establishment. “We know how much negotiating goes into getting them to visit a salon and, once there, we would always have to find ways to entertain and distract them to get through the hair treatment,” said Booi. For Molefe,   a kids-only hair salon has always been on her bucket list. She revisited the idea last year, painting a scenario where children actually looked forward to going to the salon because they could interact with their peers and be in a child-friendly space with toys, books, television programmes and an outdoor play area. The salon offers various hair treatments such as plaiting, braiding, dreadlocks, haircuts and natural hair care services. Molefe said: “We have created a space where children can interact in a safe and clean environment, read books from our mini library, watch educational programmes, access free wi-fi and engage in outdoor play while they wait to get their hair done. “We also offer shuttle services where parents can arrange for us to pick up their children for a hair treatment and drop off thereafter. The pedicure and manicure services are only available in school holidays.” Their aim is not only to give children a salon experience that they can look forward to, but also to provide a convenience for busy parents. Molefe, who is an expert on human resource management, has always had an interest in business. In 2018 she ran  an industrial laundry business which provided hygienic laundry solutions. “Perky Hair is very much in its infancy but, like any other business, there were challenges  in trying to set it up,” Molefe said. “These ranged  from finding suitable premises, to sourcing stylists who are not only highly skilled but love and have a passion for children. “Shop-fitting delays from some of our suppliers were also a challenge, which led us to move our initial opening date from the April 1 to 26. “Since opening, we have realised that our clients, particularly the younger ones, will never be keen on getting their hair combed out or even touched, so naturally they would rather be in the play areas. “But the beauty of being in a child-friendly hair salon is that there are many things  of interest to them that serve as diversions from what is being done.” Booi said their idea was to treat all types of hair, but currently their team comprises stylists who only specialise in African hair. “We are in the process of recruiting stylists who specialise in other hair types.” Their prices are  market-related for urban areas, with a hair wash costing R50 and plaits and braiding styles varying, with the highest being R500. “People can contact us at 063-666-8366/082-811-5872, visit our website www.perkyhair.co.za, or our social media page Facebook Perk Hair-East London Kidz only hair salon, or the Instagram page perkyhair_kidzonlysalon,” Booi said. “We want to create a strong brand known for its superior quality service in child hair care.”