It was a great start to the rugby season for the Selborne College first team when they saw off Queen’s College 32-10 in Komani on Saturday. It was the East London school’s first game of the season and also their first since the coronavirus pandemic halted school sports. The win helped set the tone for Selborne to have a good season. Captained by Akho Magadla, the visitors dominated their Queen’s rivals, drawing first blood courtesy of a monster kick from lock Adam Tonkin. Shortly afterwards, Queen’s flyhalf Bryan Muir returned the compliment to make it 3-3 after the early exchanges. From there on it was all Selborne, as big flank Matthew Coetzer crossed for a converted try, followed by a second try by the highly-rated Guy Bishop, who picked up the ball on the blindside and bumped off some defenders as he powered his way over the line. Lutho Somlota then scored a classic wing’s try, running over  the whitewash after he was sent through by outside centre Caleb Schwagele. Queen’s captain Asemahle Mafenyana grabbed his side’s first try, but the game was put to bed when Selborne scrumhalf Adam du Plessis scored their final try. Selborne coach Chase Morrison was satisfied with the way his side began the match and how they gained momentum throughout the encounter. “We started the game incredibly well on Saturday and we knew we had to. “Going to Queenstown [Komani] and getting a win on the Rec is not something that comes easy,” he said. “We held onto the ball well and we dominated in the first phase, which allowed us an easy transition into our first game in a long time. “Starting the season with a win is great because naturally the boys  were very nervous. “There are lots of first-timers in the side, but moving forward the players will be a lot more comfortable when it comes to derbies.” Selborne’s next match is against Port Rex on Saturday, when the team will be looking to improve on their decision-making in the opposition half. “We are a performance-based team, so naturally there will always be aspects that can be worked on to better our overall performance,” Morrison said. “There will be a big focus on decision-making in the opposition half moving into this weekend’s fixture against Port Rex.” DispatchLIVE