Residents in KwaBhaca, Emnxakazi Village could not contain their excitement when they received electricity for the first time, as for years they had to cook on wood fires outdoors . The R1.8-million Emnxekazi project has been rolled out in four villages in KwaBhaca . Politicians, traditional leaders and community representatives attended the launch of the initiative on April 1. Eighty-nine homes received electricity for the first time in the first phase of the project. “In April we led a delegation to switch on the lights to 89 families here in Mnxekazi. I was here when we brought in the contractor, ” said Umzimvubu mayor Sobane Mnukwa. “We are happy to see our people full of joy. We are not here for meetings - we are here to switch the lights on for them.” Mnukwa urged community members not to damage government property when they appealed for services. “Our municipality will continue to ensure development for everyone who is under our jurisdiction.” Eskom manager Vuyi Gwana encouraged residents and beneficiaries to handle the electricity with care. “Electricity is dangerous. I am happy and excited, but at the same time, I am worried. We are urging people not to build their homes under electrical infrastructure, even if the land looks good, to avoid and risk and fatalities to humans and their livestock.” Resident Francis Madinda Mdanyana said many people had struggled without electricity, and at times had to travel long distances to recharge their cellphones. “We have been in the dark for all these years, but today we feel like newborn babies. We are starting a new chapter in our lives, and life will change for the better. We thank our municipality, and we hope they continue to do the same for other villages too. ” Another resident, Temba Khuzo, said: “Our children will now get to have things that we could only dream off. Children in cities and towns have electrical gadgets, people in developed places have electrical appliances that bring convenience to many households. This is the dream we wanted for our own areas.” The municipality has been rolling out several community developments under the hashtags #UphuhlisoKumntuWonke, #AsimangaSiyaqhuba, #ServiceDelivery and # BuildingTheEasternCapeWeWant. Social media users took to Facebook to thank the municipality for its service delivery efforts. Khanya Kalashe wrote: Amidst the many imbalances that may exist, Umzimvubu remains committed in addressing all service delivery related challenges in the area. Indeed Asimanga Siyaquba!” This initiative is in partnership with the Umzimvubu Municipality