The article "Councillor Raises Safety Fears over New Advertising Billboard's Construction" (DD May 26) refers. If only  BCM  spokesperson  Samkelo Ngwenya was forced to leave his air-conditioned office before  commenting to the media. In this case, his comments about the  advertising billboard erected over Western Avenue on the way to Hemingways mall would likely have been very different. The rust he mentions on the spot-welding is actually appearing all over the gigantic metal structure. How this billboard can already be sporting advertising signage while still being under construction is mindboggling — clearly it has not or should not have been signed off, and yet it is already in use. Amazingly, it was only when a number of concerned structural engineers made contact with  BCM that  strengthening struts were even added to the  structure. The DA intends to ask  council  for all the required signed-off documents, including the signed-off structural plan for the billboard. We have already asked for an independent structural engineer to inspect the billboard for  the required safety standards. We have asked that, until this is done,  the advertising signage is removed, as the weight of it and the resistance offered in high winds could pose  increased danger to every motorist  in the vicinity. — DA Councillor Sue Bentley, BCM  I grew up thinking the leaders of the "independent" bantustans were the worst sellouts but  now I think  they were  better community leaders than today's politicians. For example in BCM the  current government  closes and destroys  schools  built  by the likes of Lennox Sebe in  Ciskei — genuine educational institutions like Hlaziya and Vulindlela  ("Red Tape Snarls up Repurposing of Abandoned Eastern Cape Schools", DD Jan 5). They are destroyed. Now you  only see walls and shacks, although today we have  qualified artisans and  teachers  moulded and produced by those institutions. I hope somebody  still has pictures of those institutions to  show our children. And what happened to the factories  in Fort Jackson,  Dimbaza and Butterworth? Destroyed. We are  in trouble. We should  vote these people out of government and get better community leaders,  starting with these coming elections. — Mzwandile Mqotyana, Mdantsane