 May has been named as “Africa Month” by the African Union. Back in 1963 the Organisation of African Unity came into existence on May 25, an organisation that rallied for unity between African countries and promotion of self determination by Africans. The president of Ghana, Nkwame Nkrhuma, gave an unforgettable speech in Addis Ababa which ignited the desire for unity in the African continent in many. The  African Union replaced it in July 2002. This organisation, which came at a time when most African countries had civil wars and  economies in trouble,  was formed to boost development amongst its 54 member states, eradicate poverty and bring Africa to the global economic stage. Has the African Union been achieving its goals? I want to say yes,  because it has played a significant role in promoting political and economic development in the continent, and in defending the sovereignty of African states. But development in Africa has its own challenges,  including civil wars  based on ethnicity in  South Sudan, Burkina Faso, Somalia and Eritrea. Then we have leaders who hold on to power after their terms come to an end, like Yoweri Museveni of Uganda and Paul Kagame of Rwanda. These two phenomena are sometimes  linked, as every ethnic group wants to be in power  as a way of accessing  state resources. This approach can lead  to those in power ignoring the aspirations of the electorate.  This week there have been violent service delivery protests in Mangaung municipality in the Free State — and other parts of the country — which show that when  communities do not actively participate in making decisions about their own lives, and where there is lack of accountability from those in power,  people will revolt. Back to  Nkrumah on May 24 1963. He warned African leaders of such mistakes, saying: "Our people supported us in our fight for independence because they believed that African governments could cure the ills of the past in a way that could never be accomplished under  colonial rule. "If we allow the same conditions to exist that existed in the colonial days, all the resentment which overthrew colonialism will be mobilised against us.” As we celebrate  Africa Month let us respect and love our diverse cultures and races. Former SA president Thabo Mbeki,  in his speech "I am an African”, said: "Gloom and despondency have never defeated adversity. Trying times need courage and resilience. Our strength  is not tested during the best of times.” Indeed, Africa will rise again. — Ayabulela Ngoqo, Mdantsane