The third surge of the Covid-19 pandemic is upon us. Our dysfunctional health system in the Eastern Cape did not cope well with the first two surges. Spurred on by the new, more contagious and deadlier variants, that same, still dysfunctional system is unlikely to cope with what promises to be a devastating time ahead. Our only hope was to have as many people vaccinated as possible before the inevitable arrival of wave number three. It would have provided at least some protection and hopefully prevented our hospital system from being overwhelmed. But, to date, we haven’t even managed to vaccinate all our healthcare workers. Reports suggest that the next rollout phase for over 60s will kick off at snail pace with 300,000 healthcare workers still waiting in the wings for their vaccinations. Only 130 of the promised 3,000 vaccination sites are reportedly up and running. With this one potential life-saving option no longer available to the majority of our population, what do we have to look forward to? Our population, like every other in the world, is suffering pandemic fatigue, and too many are avoiding taking even the most basic precautions to protect themselves and their loved ones. Add to all this our largely dysfunctional municipalities, Eskom’s winter loadshedding, and skyrocketing unemployment and poverty – and we are facing a bleak and devastating winter. This week, the Dispatch is focusing on our under-served children, too many of whom are literally starving. Some 80% of children in this province are suffering from what statisticians like to refer to as multidimensional poverty meaning almost every aspect of their lives is affected by deprivation. They have inadequate access to nutrition, clothing, health, shelter, safety and education. Social development MEC Siphokazi Mani-Lusithi says she is alarmed but has no concrete plans in place to address it. Like with the pandemic, we will allow it to fester until it is a full-blown humanitarian crisis. To make matters worse, the elderly women who, too often, are forced by circumstance to take care of these children, will enter the third wave of Covid-19 unprotected and exposed, which means that more children are likely to be orphaned in the coming months. It is incumbent on society to care for its vulnerable, especially children and the elderly. We are failing them all, and history will judge us harshly.