 I fully agree with the editorial "High Time to Change the Way Boys are Brought Up in SA" (DD May 12). There is not much a government can do to control the behaviour of boys and men in their violent minds, killing anyone for that matter.  The mind boggles to think that anyone can ever have such gruesome thoughts, let alone commit these heinous crimes. Life sentences are handed down in our courts every day for murder and rape perpetrators, yet it does not seem to deter others. It is the duty of parents, families and communities to teach children the right way to love one another and live peacefully. — Cynthia Holland, via e-mail I resisted in commenting about the “Cheers for Charles" (Mgweba) letter to the editor until Brian Kruger and Donald Card came into the fray (DD May 11). The  history of the SA  Rugby Association and the Leopards  belongs in the dustbin of apartheid. We will always remember Charles Mgweba when he decided to cross over to the SARU Non-Racial fold. His talents and exploits as a rugby player were a marvel to watch. Donald Card and the Ciskei Security Branch hounded us and many players of that era never realised  their true potential and got to showcase it. We are still bleeding and choking. — Kid Nkayi, Bhisho  In his letter of reply to Mzwandile Mqotyana ("One More Try", DD May 11), Brian Kruger says that Mqotyana is correct that the Lions won all four Tests during their record-breaking tour of SA in 1974. Both gentlemen are incorrect; the fourth Test, played in Johannesburg’s Ellis Park Stadium in front of 75,000 spectators, was in fact drawn 13-13. This British Lions team was in an exceptional phase of their history, driven in large part by the genius produced by the Welsh teams of the late 60s and 70s and exemplified by rare talents such as Gareth Edwards, Phil Bennett, JJ Williams and  JPR Williams at fullback. Although not all these players were included in the Lions touring party to NZ in 1971, they defeated the All Blacks. This may provide some context to the Bok defeats in 1974 but it is certainly no excuse for the Boks' poor performance and the strange selection choices. — Adrian Price, via e-mail