Buffalo City Metro has finally taken a decision to replace Thembelani Sali, its recently axed supply chain management (SCM) boss who is one of the accused in  the ongoing  Nelson Mandela funeral scandal trial. While the decision is a welcome move, many of us still  ask why such a crucial position  was not filled for the past four years  after Sali was suspended. Of course we will be told that all processes had to be followed before Sali was axed and a replacement appointed. However, it is common knowledge that the Mandela funeral scandal case is still in the courts, so what has  changed in the Sali situation that means he can now  be fired? Eight candidates are shortlisted for the lucrative position. They include   the acting SCM general manager, Mercy Fraser, and the SCM senior buyer and former acting general manager, Nomandla Mxo. Sources indicate that many employees have voiced their frustration at how Fraser is running the department and  filed  grievances. Amid all the complaints another senior official,  Andile Xoseka, was seconded to assist in the running of the unit. Late last year the same unit was embroiled  in a R30m food voucher scandal. The vouchers were meant  to cushion the poor during lockdown. Allegations are that some non-qualifying companies were awarded tenders in the process. The Hawks launched an investigation,  confiscating the laptops  and cellphones of senior managers, including Fraser and Xoseka. On the other hand, Mxo  received a letter signed by Fraser  accusing her of gross violation of ICT policy, gross insubordination,  sabotage and  dishonesty. These goings-on at such a key unit of the metro do  not inspire confidence. If senior managers face accusations of this sort yet can still be  shortlisted  for the top position, are we not likely to see more instability as the disciplinary measures  against them play out or, worse  still, one of the cases ends up in the courts? For some time BCM has been mired in issues that impede service delivery.  One of the most recent is the billing system, which has sparked a flood of complaints from ratepayers. Residents can't afford any more dramas.  They urgently need permanent people in key positions so that service delivery can be effected and stabilised. It is our hope that those in the corridors of power at BCM, especially mayor Xola Pakati and the municipal manager,  Andile Sihlala, will deal with the issues at SCM promptly and find lasting solutions. DispatchLIVE