Former president Jacob Zuma's refusal to appear before the state capture commission  is not a political issue but a legal one. Many people politicise his disrespect for the Zondo commission and  the Constitutional Court as well. Zuma's middle finger  at the Constitutional Court is the greatest insult this country has had to deal with since the dawn of democracy. If all are really equal before the law then Zuma should be subjected to the country's laws, not ANC to rules. There is nothing political about applying the law equally to all citizens.  Zuma is  setting a bad example that some people are already copying. To sum up, Zuma must be subjected to the laws of the country for  his crimes. The law cannot apply to only one  particular section of the population. The rich and the politically connected are not above the law, that is in the  constitution. — Samkelo Latakisa, via e-mail  I am a parent whose child attends one of the  best schools in East London, with a great staff and  principal. The problem is that my child does not have  teachers for three of the subjects  he is doing because the department of education has failed to hire teachers and  fill the vacancies at that school. There are close to 1,700 learners at Ebenezer Majombozi high school  in Duncan Village, yet  less than 40 teachers. The principal and the SGB have written letters and met with the provincial officials regarding this but nothing gets done. This  excellent school  produces great matric results even though they are understaffed. Even the administration is understaffed. There was  one admin clerk  employed by the department for  such a  big school until the school  hired another one, paid by the SGB. Apparently she has been doing  a great job, yet the department has failed to  employ her permanently. This is  a  no-fee school therefore it cannot afford to pay salaries. All we are asking from the department is to hire enough teachers for our children to learn and not waste their time, as the teachers cannot take more load than they already have, and to make sure that the school has adequate admin staff, preferably to absorb the admin clerk  employed by the SGB. — Nomthi Ntoni, Mdantsane