I started out my career as a journalist in 2015 when I did my in-service training at Ikhwezi laseMthatha, a local newspaper where I worked for six months. At the time I was a public relations management student at Walter Sisulu University in Mthatha. I have always been an avid reader of the newspapers, particularly the Daily Dispatch which I read on a daily basis at the library on campus. I have freelanced for different publications across the country. I covered a range of stories including crime, education, sport, entertainment and politics while criss-crossing the province from the urban to the most remote and rural areas. I joined the Daily Dispatch in July of 2018 as a freelance journalist based in Mthatha and came on board as a permanent junior journalist in November 2019. Being journalist offers me an opportunity to help people and educating them through the stories I write. Born and bred in Mdantsane many moons ago, I graduated with a National Diploma in Journalism from the then Border Technikon, now Walter Sisulu University, in 2003. That same year I joined the now defunct East Cape News (ECN) as a junior reporter based at their Bhisho legislature office. In 2007, I moved to Johannesburg to join the City Press as a junior news reporter, and later as their entertainment and lifestyle reporter.  A year later, I did a B-Tech in Journalism degree at the Tshwane University of Technology in Pretoria. In 2009 I joined Eastern Cape News as a senior politics reporter and was appointed the politics editor a year later. In 2011 I was recruited to the Daily Dispatch as a mid-level politics reporter. I worked up my way up the ranks to senior politics reporter and later Bhisho legislature correspondent. In January 2021 I was appointed as a chief reporter, a position I hold to date. I started working as a journalist with the Daily Dispatch in 1984. A decade later, having reported on South Africa’s democratic elections for The Herald in Nelson Mandela Bay, I took up a corporate communications role in the motor industry. I later also worked for a state-owned company, in provincial government, higher education, and in property development. In 2013, I returned to the Dispatch newsroom where I reported on courts and business. I have also written on a wide range of subjects for the paper’s opinion pages. I see the role of the media as telling people’s stories, sharing information that enables citizens to exercise their right to practice democracy, and asking tough questions of those in leadership positions in society.​  I’m Madeleine Chaput and I'm 27 years old. I studied at Rhodes University, graduating with a degree in photojournalism in 2016.  I always wanted to be a photojournalist and capture stories via images, but fell in love with words throughout my studies and at my first job in the field as a junior reporter at local community newspaper, The GO! & Express. I have been a journalist at the Daily Dispatch since 2018, covering various stories. I love feature writing and anything to do with animals, the arts and good, happy news. As a Dispatch journalist, I have been lucky enough to write about things, experiences, people, places and issues that inspire and move me . My favourite thing about my job is having the opportunity to meet, connect with and learn from people who have different backgrounds, skill sets, talents and points of view. I am Bonisile Ndaliso, 46. I hold a Bachelor's degree (BSc Sc) in Communication from the University of Fort Hare. I graduated in 2003 and joined the Daily Dispatch as an intern in the same year. I worked for a period of 18 months before moving to Cape Town and about a year later moved to KwaZulu-Natal where I worked for the Ladysmith Gazette, a community paper under the Caxton group, for four years. From there I joined The Witness in Pietermaritzburg as a reporter, senior reporter and later deputy news editor. In August 2014 I joined The Daily News in Durban as a senior reporter and later as chief reporter. In May 2021, I rejoined the Daily Dispatch as a senior reporter. The idea of questioning and holding those in power to account is what keeps me going. This includes, but is not limited to, exposing abuse of power, nepotism and corruption. My name is Lulamile Feni, affectionately called by my clan name, Tshawe. I am the Mthatha bureau chief, the traditional affairs correspondent and senior photographer. I have been with the Daily Dispatch since 1997. However, I first cut my teeth as a reporter and photographer at the Kei Mercury and also worked as a news editor and chief photographer of the Bisho/King Capital. Both those community newspapers have since closed down. My responsibilities included being the Bhisho legislature correspondent and running both the Bhisho and Qonce (then King William’s Town) bureaus. My passion for reporting lies in rural development stories and issues of royalty, African cultures and customs and rural life. I'm Mfundo Piliso, 31 years of age and I am journalism graduate of the Walter Sisulu University. I worked for two well-known newspapers in the country, the Daily Sun and the Natal Witness in KwaZulu-Natal. I have also worked as a media monitor in Johannesburg where I was responsible for monitoring a number for radio and TV stations in the SADC region. In 2017, I joined the Dispatch as a sports reporter before moving to hard news. I am passion about news and helping those in need and it has always been a dream of mine to work in the Dispatch newsroom because of the history the newspaper carries in the Eastern Cape and the respect it commands in the entire country. I’m Amanda Nano, 35 years young and a BTech Water Sisulu University (WSU) journalism graduate. My interests in the media and arts space, besides journalism and film; include tourism. Having watched and dreamed of being the next Debora Patta on Check Point, I've come a full circle. During my first year at WSU, I knew right there and then that I wanted to work either in broadcast or print media. For broadcast, I was fortunate enough to do my training under the late Khaya Mpunzima, my assignment editor – that’s where my passion for community news grew. For print, I have always dreamt of working for the Daily Dispatch. While actively looking for work, I volunteered my time after graduation to work with WSU 2nd year students to facilitate television news broadcasts and run the student news agency under my former lecturer, Keshina Thaver. I carried on doing this while pursuing my BTech degree. This re-ignited my love for print and I was fortunate to land a stepping stone at the GO! & Express community newspaper. I have since moved on from there and I am now a metro reporter at the Daily Dispatch tackling what I love - community and metro news. When I'm not in the office, a quiet day at home with family or spending time with close friends is an ideal day. My name is Gugu Phandle and I’m 29-years-old. I first collided with journalism during my media studies programme at the University of Cape Town. Upon my return to my home province, I delved right into the thick of things and joined the Dispatch newsroom. Since then I’ve worked on the digital team, producing video content and handling the paper’s social media platforms, and as a field reporter going out and gathering information on stories. Having the dual experience has opened my eyes to the power of multimedia when telling a story.My keen interest for the media industry soon grew when I was introduced other media platforms including radio. I consider myself as a multimedia broadcaster. I’m strongly motivated by human interaction and people’s experiences with life. Story telling has the ability to invoke positive change and that is what drives me to continue with the work that we do on a daily basis.